#Brain dump 2019-01-06
DATE:January 6, 2019

_Warning: This is mostly unedited rambling._

I am no pessimist, I just think a lot. These days I barley listen to music. I used to have my headphones on at all times outside, there was always some album that was the "current" one, looping. Now all that surrounds me is silence, and I enjoy it. Walks, several hour long walks, in silence. No, not silence, there is some kind of noise, in my head, but that is just me pondering. The thoughts can be classified into two categories. The first one is idle chatter, like small talk, I might run through things, plans, situations – nothing of big importance. I often make up music, there is often a "song of the day"; some loop that was made up somewhere in there, I found it appealing, it keeps repeating. Funny, I don't listen to music, so I sub-consciously make music. Anyways, this category is the "I don't have a lot on my mind". It is sort of a relaxed state. Sometimes I don't think about anything at all. Sometimes I try to not think of anything at all, most of above is after all just nonsense. Except the music bit, I think allowing yourself to make up small tunes is good. Why, I do not know. I come up with such a multitude of little songs (not that I record them in any way, some stick for a long time, but almost all of them disappear in due time) that I have been thinking "oh my, maybe I should focus my time on being a musician". Stuff just seems to fall out without effort from somewhere deep within me. Perhaps that is how you should choose what to do in life. Just sit still, don't do anything. See what comes out spontaneously and refine that.

Anyways, the other category of brain-noise is more like some sort of serious debate. You know, whatever happens when you have problems and your brain goes back and forth about it. I have this little habit, which I know at least one other friend also has, to make almost a "play" in my head. You know, like a stage play. It is usually when the whatever is bothering or consuming me includes a real person. I simulate the conversation I know I will have or want to have. Often it can be helpful, but sometimes I guess it's a bit harmful because I build this idea of how people are going to respond and when I actually have the real conversation nothing is every really like I thought. It always starts out completely different than I imagined and then people don't react like I thought. But ah, whatever, I think I do this less often now. Most of my "play" conversation are instead about important topics that I want to discuss, sometimes I just seem to have a discussion with some arbitrary, shapeless person. It's not a preparation for a specific conversation, I just try to make my thoughts cohesive. I think this version of these little plays are good, because everything becomes untangled and I can express ideas clearly at later points. Oh well, yeah, the make-believe-conversion-with-friend is probably not 100% good, but I have started dispelling them with this mantra: "except for things that are set in stone, nothing will ever turn out like expected". I think it's neat.

One thing I have been thinking about is what we humans do to ourselves and our planet and how it will end and all that. It has been said that in order to make the required changes to stop climate change, we would need to put society into a state of war-like rationing. Especially in countries like Sweden. My mother is a teacher for 7-9 graders and she asked them what impact they think swedes have on the environment. There was this green-politics-aware student who thought we were so good because we recycle and buy organic stuff and whatnot. But turns out that we are among the worst. Well, good that we recycle, but why do we have so much to recycle in the first place? Even with trends of second-hand shopping and all that, we are still insane over-consumers. Swedes consume like we have slightly more than 4 planets to spare. So something radical has to be done about that! It must be the first stop of all green political efforts. A radical shift away from consumerism. People at the top needs to stand up and say "hey, it's ok to live a basic life. We don't need to have all these things. It's perfectly possible to have the good, happy life while not consuming so much." But they don't. Even the most green of political parties in Sweden seem to be caught up in introducing policies that will slightly shift behaviors in some desired direction. But it is not enough. I don't get how they are able to look themselves in the mirror and call themselves the green party. With the challenges of today, being green MUST mean that you are radically anti-consumerist and it must become an ok idea to broadcast to the public. Looking at what these politicians want to do, if they got their own majority, is laughable. Even if we did everything that the Swedish green party wanted we would still need more than one planet.

Another thing about these parties – be it the green party or the left party (which are supposed to be "as green") – is the incompatibility of the green ideas and their economy politics. Like I said, they need to be radical anti-consumerists and they need to be it yesterday. But these are parties that are bound up in the normal capitalist economy. If we were to be more radically anti-consumerist, then we would have to have a negative economic growth, the whole "developed world" needs to. THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT. If we want to move from requiring 4 planets to less than 1, then humongous changes need to be put in place. This is the state of war-like rationing I mentioned. But since we are so used to having everything, being able to "be free" by spending money on whatever we want, it would be very hard to introduce any such system. There might even break out civil war. Or something. Bad stuff would happen. All this because we THINK that we are free, the feeling of freedom coming from the fact that we know that we can use our money to buy stuff, go anywhere. But we are bound up, like slaves. We have been tricked into having to work long hours to pay for lots of stuff we don't need in order to destroy the only thing we do need, our home. Because of this, because we are like insane addicts who would go rampage if anything drastically changed and because this drastic change needs to happen I am fairly sure society as we know it is fucked. We who are young today are likely to see the fall of modern civilization. I don't think everyones gonna die or anything, but lots will. There will be refugees.

This is really just a manifestation of a more general thing, that radical change cannot happen without there being a vacuum. The world is like that. New types of government cannot be tested without a power vacuum. I like giving the example of Rojava in northern Syria, an autonomous region where they have flipped the pyramid of power in society upside down, utilizing what I think is best described as anarchism-with-a-framework. They were able to get so far with this because of the power vacuum in the region. Something similar will happen with the world with regards to climate change. As the whole planet goes into a state of emergency and state after state breaks into pieces, people will look back and see how they were tricked into working far more than they needed so that they could buy things they didn't need in order to destroy the planet they needed. There will be new societies, doing right what we did not, but the road there will be filled with incomprehensible suffering.

I will now start the last semester of my bachelor in physics and astronomy. I often joke that I completely switch direction in life every third year. Up until a couple of months ago, I was fairly sure that I would stay on the physics track, even get a master degree in astronomy. But thing is, I have recently begun to doubt the whole point of it all. I have learned a lot and it has given me fantastic insight and I have even noticed positive effects in other parts of life. For example, my problem-solving abilities have improved dramatically. I sat down and did some 3D programming last year and complex things like 3D collision detection and collision solving was actually pretty doable, because I was able to methodically break it down in a nice way. I felt like I was able to quickly solve complicated and sticky problems while also having fun, where I would previously have been mostly upset. Anyways, I haven't completely decided on what to do. If I do continue with the 2-year-master then I will probably go to Edinburgh for my first year (unless Brexit fucks everything up). The primary reason for going isn't that I think I will learn more astronomy that way (I think I would be able to be more focused and organized if I didn't go), it is simply that I would like to live in an English-speaking community for an extended period of time, I think that will give my English skills that extra flare that I can achieve in Swedish, both written and spoken. The reason I might not continue is simply that I probably don't want to work in the field, I study it mostly out of curiosity. Also, I have been thinking about how I actually would want to go about life outside of university. My thinking is like this. People are to isolated nowadays. We do not help each other like we ought to. Help can't be free, if I were to go out there and just try to help people they might even find it suspicious that someone would like to help just like that. If you want help, then you pay someone to do it. We have stopped talking to each other, creating an economic bubble around us and we interact with the unknown world using our wallets. We are truly more lonely and isolated than ever. I don't want that. I am seriously thinking about living someplace cheap, working a few days a week and then just trying to organize myself in helping those that need it most. It seems like the antidote I think the world needs. I much rather to this than going back to working full-time and trying to do meaningful things in between.